These patches are from the Einstein Toolkit project

# Lorene

To install Lorene correctly in any system is necessary to have the GSL library installed.
At this time we have tested it to work correctly on GSL_VERSION=2.7.1.

## Install Lorene in Aurora

To install Lorene in Aurora is necessary to unpack the GSL library correctly. In 
`batchtools/athenak/aurora` there is an script `install_gsl.sh` that requires 
an input directory to be set and executed as follows:
```
./install_gsl.sh <input_directory>
```
A good practice may be to define the `$HOME/local` directory as the input.
Furthermore, we need to add its binaries and libraries in the `PATH` and `LD_LIBRARY` 
libraries respectively.
```
export PATH=$PATH:/home/asmithclark91/gsl/bin
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/home/asmithclark91/gsl/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
```
Make sure that is correctly installed by checking `gsl-config --prefix`. It should point
to the directory that is currently located the `gsl-config` binary file.

## Download Lorene

To download Lorene we need to execute the `download.sh` script located in `batchtools/athenak/templates/lorene`.
This will generate the tarball `Lorene.tar` that needs to be unzipped as:
```
tar -xvf Lorene.tar
```
Creating the `Lorene` directory inside `batchtools/athenak/templates/lorene`. 
This is a very important step, otherwise the patching process will corrupt. If this
happens, delete the `Lorene/` folder and repeat this step.

## Build Lorene

Before we build Lorene, we need to make sure that the `config.sh` file is properly set. Be aware of the
`local_settings` file generated by the `config.sh` file. Icontains the right directories of the GSL 
library discussed above, and follows the same structure of the 

To build Lorene we execute:
```
cd Lorene 
../config
../build
```

## Runing AthenaK with Lorene

To run AthenaK with Lorene, we need to add a softlink of the `batchtools/athenak/templates/lorene/Lorene`
directory in the root directory of AthenaK `path/to/athenak`, and compile with the `lorene_bns` generator
file. Also, the following CMake flags are needed:
```
-DCMAKE_EXE_LINKER_FLAGS="-lgfortran"
-DGSL_ROOT_DIR=`gsl-config --prefix` 
```
